Feat(Savings Plans): create guide (#7349)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/compute/savings_plans/guide.en-bg.md

---
title: 'How Savings Plans work ?'
excerpt: 'Savings Plans: Everything you need to know to optimise your costs'
updated: 2025-01-06
---

<style>
details>summary {
    color:rgb(33, 153, 232) !important;
    cursor: pointer;
}
details>summary::before {
    content:'\25B6';
    padding-right:1ch;
}
details[open]>summary::before {
    content:'\25BC';
}
</style>

## Objectives

This guide aims to provide you with a clear and practical understanding of Savings Plans, to help you optimise your infrastructure costs. We'll explain what Savings Plans are, how they work, and how to choose the model best suited to your specific needs. Through concrete examples, you will discover how these plans can reduce your expenditure while offering flexibility in the management of your resources.

> The guide will also detail the use of the Savings Plans dashboard, which will allow you to track your costs, the number of virtual machines used and covered, and the savings generated. Finally, we'll help you understand the billing aspects so you can analyse and maximise the benefits of your Savings Plan choices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guide will also detail the use of the Savings Plans dashboard, which will allow you to track your costs, the number resources used and covered by yours plans, and the savings generated. Finally, we'll help you understand the billing aspects so you can analyse and maximise the benefits of your Savings Plan choices.
```

Reviewer: in order to have something generic in this intro for all services that will implement Saving Plans I suggest to remove 'virtual machines'

## How Savings Plans work ?

> [!warning]
>

> > Please note that Savings Plans are not currently available. If you have a specific request or requirement, please contact our sales team.

Reviewer: ? Not relevant anymore. SVP are available

>

> > Please note that only Gen3 **instances** are eligible for Savings Plans. Make sure that your instance belongs to this generation to benefit from this offer.

Reviewer: Same remark as above, maybe we should remain generic on the intro section and cover all eligible Services

>

### What is a Savings Plan ?

> A Savings Plan is an offer whereby a customer, in exchange for coverage for a certain number of simultaneous instances, commits to paying a fixed amount for a specified period. This commitment model enables customers to benefit from reduced rates for covered instances, compared with hourly billing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Savings Plan is an offer whereby a customer, in exchange for coverage for a certain number of simultaneous resources, commits to pay a fixed amount for a specified period. This commitment model enables customers to benefit from reduced rates for covered instances, compared with hourly billing.
```

### How a Savings Plan works in general ?

> [!primary]
>

> > When a customer subscribes to an Savings Plan, he agrees to pay a **fixed amount** for a **given period**. In return, this plan covers a specific number of simultaneous instances for which he will pay no other charges, enabling them to benefit from advantageous billing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When a customer subscribes to an Savings Plan, he agrees to pay a **fixed amount** for a **given period**. In return, this plan covers a specific number of simultaneous resources for which he will pay no other charges, enabling them to benefit from advantageous billing.
```

> [!warning]
> 
> Update on the term **simultaneous instances**.
>
> A Savings Plan covers a number of simultaneously active instances. For example, for a Savings Plan of 1 instance, if a customer starts an instance at 10.05am and deletes it at 10.10am, then creates another instance at 10.17am and deletes it at 10.30am, even though he has started and deleted two instances, only the instances that were switched on at the same time are counted. In this case, only one instance is active at the same time, so the Savings Plan covers both instances without additional billing. This also applies if the instances are used at different times during the month (for example, from the 1st to the 10th and then from the 15th to the 30th), as long as they are not active at the same time. To find out whether a suspended or paused instance is considered active, please refer to the following guide: [Shelve or pause an instance](/pages/public_cloud/compute/suspend_or_pause_an_instance#suspendre-shelve-une-instance)
>

> 

Reviewer: Add a "Eligible / Compatible Services" that list all public cloud services that can benefit from Saving plans ?

### How Savings Plans work for Rancher ?

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Savings Plans for Rancher are based on the commitment of a vCPUs quantity for a given duration, offering advantageous billing for Managed Rancher Service. This model offers greater flexibility by applying to shared capacity for all your Ranchers.

```

Rancher Draft to complete
